Now that we know kind of had our feature needs to look like the first thing we're going to need to do
is built a cart of some sort, but we don't have the concept of a cart.
And so the way that we're going to build that is in our services folder, we have our checkout.
But next to our checkout, we're also going to have a cart.
Now, just like in other parts of this course, the cart may not have an external service right now.
Right.
It may just be contained in the application, may just be state in the application for now.
But we're putting it in the service folder because eventually we may want to sink it somewhere, save
it somewhere, have it stored on the server and kind of that kind of stuff.
But for right now, what we're going to do is we're going to build something that's called cart dot
context, dot J.S..
Right.
And that cart context is what's going to contain what we would call the user's cart.
And so the first thing we're going to need to do is we're going to import, react and create context.
Also, use state use effect and use context, and we're going to import that all from reac, these are
all the things we're going to need from Rhea.
Then what we're going to do is we're going to import the authentication context, authentication context
from dalts authentication, authentication of context, because we're going to need the user in some
way, shape or form to utilize the information that they.
Then what we're going to do is we're going to import our storage, just like we did for our favorites,
right in our favorites context, we import async storage and we're going to do a type of storing mechanism
for our cart.
So we're going to store it so that it kind of stays in state just the same way that we did with Favourite's.
And this feature is going to be quite nice because it's going to contain all of these different things
in one file.
So we're going to say export const Kaat context.
Now this kaat context is going to be create content.
This is what we're going to utilize in order to kind of pull the information off of it.
Then we'll say export consed cart context provider and we'll say that that is equal to.
Taking in the children and as always, what we're going to do initially is we're going to just return
children.
Now, over here, inside of this part context provider is where things start getting great, so we'll
say we'll pull the user off the authentication copy by doing use context.
Of the authentication company, and by doing this now, we can utilize everything the user has in order
to make our case, then we're going to need some state, right?
We're going to need const.
Cart and then set cart is equal to use state.
And that's going to be an empty array, so our cart will be in array.
Then we'll say constant restaurant and set restaurant, because we're only ordering from one restaurant
at a time, so let's do use state and let's set that to not because we don't currently have a rest.
Now, the next thing we need to do is we need to build our functions that will add and or remove from
our cart.
So the way that we do that is cost add is going to be a function that takes on an item and in a restaurant.
Right.
And, well, we can we can say Oreste for short for restaurant.
And the add function is going to say if we don't currently have an actual restaurant in state or the
restaurant, that place idee is not set.
Right, or we don't have a restaurant, a place.
Right.
So we want to check this.
So if we don't currently have a restaurant we're ordering from or the restaurant, that place ID is
not equal to Aristide, that place.
So if if the restaurants are different, then the first thing we're going to do is we're going to set
the restaurant to the current Aristide and then we're going to set the cart to be the cart of only the
current item.
So if you change restaurants, we're basically catching the case in which you would change restaurants,
in which case you're ordering from a different place, then we're going to do is if that's not the case,
will set the cart and we'll give you the ability to take the current cart and add the item to it.
And this is the case where if you wanted to order multiple specials, right.
Because we're only building him the ordering of one special.
And the reason I'm building it this way, instead of first putting the visuals on the screen and then
hooking them up, because I want you to also get comfortable with building the logic ahead of building
the visualisations.
Sometimes you do things in different orders and that's completely OK.
Now that we have our ADD function, the next thing we're going to need is a clear function.
And so we'll say consed clear is equal to setting the cart to empty set cart to empty.
Right.
And that's basically going to enable us to clear out the cart.
And we also have to set the restaurant back to know.
And this is just to give us the safety to to know that the cards.
Now, Mo, why aren't we doing a remove from cart?
Well, because we're only able to order one special at a time from one restaurant.
We're not building out the full, full, full cart integration because we're not able to order multiple,
multiple items.
If you wanted to look at, you know, what what a remove integration would look like, const remove
would be something along the lines of taking the item and then going ahead and saying.
Something along the lines of if you had an item that ID write, you would go and check the cart, right?
Cart, dot filter.
For I and then check if item that ID is on there and then you would kind of remove that off, but we're
not building out the remove functionality right now as it's not pertinent to our feature, as we're
trying to focus on the end to end flow of a payment rather than the fully fledged markups of a cart
integration.
We're ordering specials and we're keeping it as simple as possible to focus on that stripe integration.
OK, so we're able to add the cart and we're able to clear the cart.
So in both cases, we're kind of covered for the user, right?
Now, now comes the interesting part right now comes the part where, well, we can add the cart, we
can remove from cart, but we don't really have anything.
So let's return the cart context dot provider.
And let's close that off, right?
And then what we're going to put on the values of this is equal to we're going to put on the add to
cart as the ad.
We're going to put the clear cart as clear, we're going to put the restaurant, we're going to put
the cart itself, and then the last thing we're going to put is the children inside so that we can render
out everything subsequently.
So with these four functions, we basically cover exposing the cart outside of this file.
So let's take a look at what that looks like.
If we went went ahead and actually implemented the button that we need.
So if we go over here to restaurants components and we went over to the restaurant info card component
over here is where we're going to do the bulk of the integration for this particular feature to add
to CART.
Right.
And now that we have our cart context in a state that it's ready to integrate, let's go take a look
at what that integration looks like.